For behold, the Lord, the Lord of hosts,
takes away from Jerusalem and from
Judah, the stock and the store, the
whole supply of bread and the whole
supply of water, the mighty man and the
man of war, the judge and the prophet,
and the diver and the elder, the captain
of 50 and the honorable man, the
counselor and the skillful artisan, and
the expert enchanter. I will give
children to be their princes, and babes
shall rule over them. The people will be
oppressed, everyone by another, and
everyone by his neighbor. The child will
be insolent toward the elder and the
base toward the honorable. When a man
takes hold of his brother in the house
of his father, saying, "You have
clothing, you be our ruler, and let
these ruins be under your power." In
that day he will protest, saying, "I
cannot cure your ills, for in my house
is neither food nor clothing. Do not
make me a ruler of the people, for
Jerusalem stumbled and Judah is fallen."
Because their tongue and their doings
are against the Lord to provoke the eyes
of his glory. The look on their
countenance witnesses against them, and
they declare their sin as Sodom. They do
not hide it. Woe to their soul, for they
have brought evil upon themselves. Say
to the righteous that it shall be well
with them, for they shall eat the fruit
of their doings. Woe to the wicked, it
shall be ill with him. For the reward of
his hands shall be given him. As for my
people, children are their oppressors
and women rule over them. Oh my people,
those who lead you cause you to heir and
destroy the way of your paths. The Lord
stands up to plead and stands to judge
the people. The Lord will enter into
judgment with the elders of his people
and his princes.
For you have eaten up the vineyard. The
plunder of the poor is in your houses.
What do you mean by crushing my people
and grinding the faces of the poor? Says
the Lord God of hosts. Moreover, the
Lord says, "Because the daughters of
Zion are haughty and walk with
outstretched necks and want eyes,
walking and mincing as they go, making a
jingling with their feet. Therefore, the
Lord will strike with a scab the crown
of the head of the daughters of Zion,
and the Lord will uncover their secret
parts.
In that day, the Lord will take away the
finery, the jingling anklets, the
scarves and the crescent, the pendants,
the bracelets and the veils, the
headdresses, the leg ornaments and the
headbands, the perfume boxes, the charms
and the rings, the nose jewels, the
festal apparel and the mantels, the
outer garments, the purses and the
mirrors, the fine linen, the turbons and
the robes. And so it shall be. Instead
of a sweet smell, there will be a
stench. Instead of a sash, a rope,
instead of well set hair, baldness.
Instead of a rich robe, a girding of
sackcloth and branding instead of
beauty. Your men shall fall by the
sword, and your mighty in the war. Her
gates shall lament and mourn, and she
being desolate shall sit on the ground.